content/docs/base_theme.en-US.mdx, before:

---
title: Theme
publishedAt: 2024-02-09
summary: Pol-ui offers powerful theming capabilities that allow you to customize the look and feel of your application.
order: 5
path: theme
doc_type: base
tags:
  - theming
  - theme
  - customization
---

**Pol-ui** offers powerful theming capabilities that allow you to customize the look and feel of your application.

Let's have a loot at the different layers of customization:

## 1 - General configuration - Tailwind CSS

The main point to style **Pol-ui** is to use [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). It is a utility-first CSS framework that allows you to build custom designs without ever leaving your HTML.
The file called **tailwind.config.js** is the main configuration file for Tailwind CSS. It allows you to customize the default theme, add new utilities, and more.

### Tailwind Plugin

To add facilities to the Tailwind CSS configuration, you can use the **tailwindcss** plugin that we provide inside of the package, there is no need to install anything else.

```javascript title="Example of a Pol-ui theme configuration"
// tailwind.config.ts
import type { Config } from "tailwindcss";
import typography from "@tailwindcss/typography";
import { poluiPlugin } from "pol-ui";

export default {
  content: [
    "./src/**/*.tsx",
    "./node_modules/pol-ui/**/*.js",
  ],
  darkMode: ["class"],
  plugins: [typography, poluiPlugin({})],
} satisfies Config;
```

This plugin provides default color configuration for free, but you can customize it as you wish.

### Customize the plugin configuration

You can customize the plugin configuration by passing an object to the **poluiPlugin** function. This object has the following properties:

```ts
type CustomPluginConfig = {
  colors?: SomeColors;
  prefix?: string;
};
export type ColorScale = Partial<{
  50: string;
  100: string;
  200: string;
  300: string;
  400: string;
  500: string;
  600: string;
  700: string;
  800: string;
  900: string;
}>;

export type ThemeColors = {
  primary: ColorScale;
  secondary: ColorScale;
  success: ColorScale;
  warning: ColorScale;
  error: ColorScale;
  info: ColorScale;
};

export type SomeColors = Partial<ThemeColors>;
```

#### colors

You can provide any color you want to customize the default theme. The **SomeColors** type is a partial of the **ThemeColors** type, so you can provide only the colors you want to customize. There is no need then to provide all the colors.

#### prefix

You can provide a prefix to the colors that will be generated by the plugin. This is useful when you want to use the same color scale for different components.

### Example of a custom configuration

```javascript title="Example of a custom configuration"
import type { Config } from "tailwindcss";
import typography from "@tailwindcss/typography";
import { poluiPlugin } from "pol-ui";

export default {
  content: [
    "./app/**/*.{ts,tsx}",
    "./components/**/*.{ts,tsx}",
    "./content/**/*.mdx",
    "./node_modules/pol-ui/**/*.js",
  ],
  darkMode: ["class"],

  plugins: [
    typography,
    poluiPlugin({
      colors: {
        secondary: {
          500: "#FFD700",
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
} satisfies Config;
```

This configuration will override the default secondary color with a golden color, you can provide any shadow from any color.

#### Default colors

Inside of the plugin, you can customize our used colors:

- primary
- secondary
- success
- warning
- error
- info

### Adding more colors

In case you want to add more colors to the theme, you can use the **extend** property of the **theme** object in the **tailwind.config.js** file.

```javascript title="Example of adding more colors"
// tailwind.config.js
import { type Config } from "tailwindcss";

  export default {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        "my-custom-color": "#FFD700",
      },
    },
  },
} satisfies Config;
```

This new color called **my-custom-color** will be available to use in your application, Pol-ui won't use it, but you can use it in the rest of your application as normal tailwind colors.

The good part of using the plugin is that for free you will have the colors [detailed before](#default-colors) without the need to add them manually.

## 2 - General configuration - Theming

In the root of you application, you can wrap your app with a component called **ProviderProps** , where a prop called **theme** is optionally sent. This prop is a object that has the same structure of the **Theme** type.

```tsx title="Props of theme object"
interface ThemeProps {
  mode?: ThemeMode;
  theme?: CustomPoluiTheme;
}
```

### Theme mode

You can specify the default light or mode for your application, the default value is **auto**. This means that the application will use the system preference to choose the mode.
You can send **light** or **dark** as well to force the mode.

### Theme object provided

The theme object is a quite interesting prop that allows you to modify each single tailwind class created in **Pol-ui** in your whole application.

```ts
export interface PoluiTheme {
  accordion: AccordionTheme;
  alert: AlertTheme;
  avatar: AvatarTheme;
  badge: BadgeTheme;
  popover: PopoverTheme;
  banner: BannerTheme;
  breadcrumb: BreadcrumbTheme;
  button: ButtonTheme;
  // ... and so on
}
```

Each single component has a prop called **theme** that is a structured object used to apply tailwind styles to the component.

If you for example, modify the global alert theme here, all your **alerts** will have this same changes.

```tsx title="Example of a custom theme in Alert"


const AppProvider = ({ children }: PropsWithChildren) => {
  return (
      <PoluiProvider theme={
        theme:{
          alert: {
              base: "bg-red-500 text-white",
          },
        }
      }>{children}</PoluiProvider>
  );
};
```

Using this configuration, all alerts will have a red background and white text.

## 2 - Component customization

As well as the global theme, you can customize each single component in your application.

### Using Tailind CSS classes

All components have a prop called **className** that allows you to apply tailwind classes to the component.

The problem here is that some components have a complex structures inside and it's not that easy as applying a class to a div.

To solve this problem some components provides different tailwind props for that as **inputClassName**, **iconClassName**, **buttonClassName** and so on.

To be sure that you can change each single Tailwind class, you can use the same **theme** prop that we saw before but specific to the component.

```tsx title="Example of a custom theme in Alert"
<Alert theme={{ base: "bg-red-500 text-white" }}>This is a custom alert</Alert>
```

This will apply the same changes as the previous example, but only for this single alert.

Commit message:

Update base_theme.en-US.mdx with component customization instructions

content/docs/base_theme.en-US.mdx, after:

---
title: Theme
publishedAt: 2024-02-09
summary: Pol-ui offers powerful theming capabilities that allow you to customize the look and feel of your application.
order: 5
path: theme
doc_type: base
tags:
  - theming
  - theme
  - customization
---

**Pol-ui** offers powerful theming capabilities that allow you to customize the look and feel of your application.

Let's have a loot at the different layers of customization:

## 1 - General configuration - Tailwind CSS

The main point to style **Pol-ui** is to use [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). It is a utility-first CSS framework that allows you to build custom designs without ever leaving your HTML.
The file called **tailwind.config.js** is the main configuration file for Tailwind CSS. It allows you to customize the default theme, add new utilities, and more.

### Tailwind Plugin

To add facilities to the Tailwind CSS configuration, you can use the **tailwindcss** plugin that we provide inside of the package, there is no need to install anything else.

```javascript title="Example of a Pol-ui theme configuration"
// tailwind.config.ts
import type { Config } from "tailwindcss";
import typography from "@tailwindcss/typography";
import { poluiPlugin } from "pol-ui";

export default {
  content: [
    "./src/**/*.tsx",
    "./node_modules/pol-ui/**/*.js",
  ],
  darkMode: ["class"],
  plugins: [typography, poluiPlugin({})],
} satisfies Config;
```

This plugin provides default color configuration for free, but you can customize it as you wish.

### Customize the plugin configuration

You can customize the plugin configuration by passing an object to the **poluiPlugin** function. This object has the following properties:

```ts
type CustomPluginConfig = {
  colors?: SomeColors;
  prefix?: string;
};
export type ColorScale = Partial<{
  50: string;
  100: string;
  200: string;
  300: string;
  400: string;
  500: string;
  600: string;
  700: string;
  800: string;
  900: string;
}>;

export type ThemeColors = {
  primary: ColorScale;
  secondary: ColorScale;
  success: ColorScale;
  warning: ColorScale;
  error: ColorScale;
  info: ColorScale;
};

export type SomeColors = Partial<ThemeColors>;
```

#### colors

You can provide any color you want to customize the default theme. The **SomeColors** type is a partial of the **ThemeColors** type, so you can provide only the colors you want to customize. There is no need then to provide all the colors.

#### prefix

You can provide a prefix to the colors that will be generated by the plugin. This is useful when you want to use the same color scale for different components.

### Example of a custom configuration

```javascript title="Example of a custom configuration"
import type { Config } from "tailwindcss";
import typography from "@tailwindcss/typography";
import { poluiPlugin } from "pol-ui";

export default {
  content: [
    "./app/**/*.{ts,tsx}",
    "./components/**/*.{ts,tsx}",
    "./content/**/*.mdx",
    "./node_modules/pol-ui/**/*.js",
  ],
  darkMode: ["class"],

  plugins: [
    typography,
    poluiPlugin({
      colors: {
        secondary: {
          500: "#FFD700",
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
} satisfies Config;
```

This configuration will override the default secondary color with a golden color, you can provide any shadow from any color.

#### Default colors

Inside of the plugin, you can customize our used colors:

- primary
- secondary
- success
- warning
- error
- info

### Adding more colors

In case you want to add more colors to the theme, you can use the **extend** property of the **theme** object in the **tailwind.config.js** file.

```javascript title="Example of adding more colors"
// tailwind.config.js
import { type Config } from "tailwindcss";

  export default {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        "my-custom-color": "#FFD700",
      },
    },
  },
} satisfies Config;
```

This new color called **my-custom-color** will be available to use in your application, Pol-ui won't use it, but you can use it in the rest of your application as normal tailwind colors.

The good part of using the plugin is that for free you will have the colors [detailed before](#default-colors) without the need to add them manually.

### If you don't want to use the plugin

## 2 - General configuration - Theming

In the root of you application, you can wrap your app with a component called **ProviderProps** , where a prop called **theme** is optionally sent. This prop is a object that has the same structure of the **Theme** type.

```tsx title="Props of theme object"
interface ThemeProps {
  mode?: ThemeMode;
  theme?: CustomPoluiTheme;
}
```

### Theme mode

You can specify the default light or mode for your application, the default value is **auto**. This means that the application will use the system preference to choose the mode.
You can send **light** or **dark** as well to force the mode.

### Theme object provided

The theme object is a quite interesting prop that allows you to modify each single tailwind class created in **Pol-ui** in your whole application.

```ts
export interface PoluiTheme {
  accordion: AccordionTheme;
  alert: AlertTheme;
  avatar: AvatarTheme;
  badge: BadgeTheme;
  popover: PopoverTheme;
  banner: BannerTheme;
  breadcrumb: BreadcrumbTheme;
  button: ButtonTheme;
  // ... and so on
}
```

Each single component has a prop called **theme** that is a structured object used to apply tailwind styles to the component.

If you for example, modify the global alert theme here, all your **alerts** will have this same changes.

```tsx title="Example of a custom theme in Alert"


const AppProvider = ({ children }: PropsWithChildren) => {
  return (
      <PoluiProvider theme={
        theme:{
          alert: {
              base: "bg-red-500 text-white",
          },
        }
      }>{children}</PoluiProvider>
  );
};
```

Using this configuration, all alerts will have a red background and white text.

## 3 - Component customization

As well as the global theme, you can customize each single component in your application.

### Using Tailind CSS classes

All components have a prop called **className** that allows you to apply tailwind classes to the component.

```tsx title="Example of a custom theme in Alert"
<Alert className="bg-red-500 text-white">This is a custom alert</Alert>
```

This will have the same effect as applying tailwind classes to any HTML element.

### Using the theme prop

Some components have a complex structure inside and it's not that easy as applying a class to a div.

To solve this problem some components provides different tailwind props for that as **inputClassName**, **iconClassName**, **buttonClassName** and so on.

To be sure that you can change each single Tailwind class, you can use the same **theme** prop that we saw before but specific to the component.

```tsx title="Example of a custom theme in Alert"
<Alert theme={{ base: "bg-red-500 text-white" }}>This is a custom alert</Alert>
```

This will apply the same changes as the previous example, but only for this single alert.
