content/docs/component_dropzone.en-US.mdx, before:

---
title: Dropzone
path: dropzone
publishedAt: 2024-03-01
githubLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/Dropzone
doc_type: component
summary: The Dropzone component from **pol-ui** creates an animated heading that displays a list of words one by one. It is a great way to create a dynamic and engaging heading for your website.

pageLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/Dropzone
tags:
  - dropzone
  - React
  - Tailwind CSS
  - Pol-ui
---

import RootCode from "examples/Dropzone/root.mdx";
import root from "examples/Dropzone/root";

import HorizontalCode from "examples/Timeline/horizontal.mdx";
import horizontal from "examples/Timeline/horizontal";

The **Timeline** component from **pol-ui** creates an animated heading that displays a list of words one by one. It is a great way to create a dynamic and engaging heading for your website.

## Importation

Import the component from **pol-ui** to use the Timeline element:

```jsx
import { Timeline } from "pol-ui";
```

## Default Timeline

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-timeline--default"
  height={380}
  name="Default Timeline"
  code={root}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-timeline--default&viewMode=story"
>
  <RootCode />
</Example>

## Props

### Timeline

| Prop name  | Type                    | Default | Description                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| theme      | [TimelineTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to be applied to the component. |
| horizontal | boolean                 | false   | The direction of the timeline.            |

### TimelineItem

| Prop name     | Type                        | Default | Description                               |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| theme         | [TimelineItemTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to be applied to the component. |
| iconContent   | ReactNode                   | null    | The content of the icon.                  |
| icon          | ReactNode                   | null    | The icon to be displayed.                 |
| iconClassName | string                      | null    | The class name of the icon.               |

## Examples

### Horizontal Timeline

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-timeline--horizontal"
  height={280}
  name="Example with long text"
  code={horizontal}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-timeline--horizontal&viewMode=story"
>
  <HorizontalCode />
</Example>

## Theme

To learn more about how to customize the appearance of components, please see the [Theme docs](/docs/theming).

```ts
interface TimelineTheme {
  root: {
    direction: {
      horizontal: string;
      vertical: string;
    };
  };
  item: {
    root: {
      horizontal: string;
      vertical: string;
    };
    content: string;
    point: {
      horizontal: string;
      line: string;
      marker: {
        base: {
          horizontal: string;
          vertical: string;
        };
        icon: {
          base: string;
          wrapper: string;
        };
      };
      vertical: string;
    };
  };
}
```

Commit message:

Update Dropzone component summary and description

content/docs/component_dropzone.en-US.mdx, after:

---
title: Dropzone
path: dropzone
publishedAt: 2024-03-01
githubLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/Dropzone
doc_type: component
summary: The Dropzone displays a box where the user can drag and drop files to upload them. It also allows the user to click on the box to open the file explorer and select files to upload.

pageLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/Dropzone
tags:
  - dropzone
  - React
  - Tailwind CSS
  - Pol-ui
---

import RootCode from "examples/Dropzone/root.mdx";
import root from "examples/Dropzone/root";

import HorizontalCode from "examples/Timeline/horizontal.mdx";
import horizontal from "examples/Timeline/horizontal";

The **Dropzone** displays a box where the user can drag and drop files to upload them. It also allows the user to click on the box to open the _file explorer_ and select files to upload.

## Importation

Import the component from **pol-ui** to use the Timeline element:

```jsx
import { Timeline } from "pol-ui";
```

## Default Timeline

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-timeline--default"
  height={380}
  name="Default Timeline"
  code={root}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-timeline--default&viewMode=story"
>
  <RootCode />
</Example>

## Props

### Timeline

| Prop name  | Type                    | Default | Description                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| theme      | [TimelineTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to be applied to the component. |
| horizontal | boolean                 | false   | The direction of the timeline.            |

### TimelineItem

| Prop name     | Type                        | Default | Description                               |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| theme         | [TimelineItemTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to be applied to the component. |
| iconContent   | ReactNode                   | null    | The content of the icon.                  |
| icon          | ReactNode                   | null    | The icon to be displayed.                 |
| iconClassName | string                      | null    | The class name of the icon.               |

## Examples

### Horizontal Timeline

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-timeline--horizontal"
  height={280}
  name="Example with long text"
  code={horizontal}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-timeline--horizontal&viewMode=story"
>
  <HorizontalCode />
</Example>

## Theme

To learn more about how to customize the appearance of components, please see the [Theme docs](/docs/theming).

```ts
interface TimelineTheme {
  root: {
    direction: {
      horizontal: string;
      vertical: string;
    };
  };
  item: {
    root: {
      horizontal: string;
      vertical: string;
    };
    content: string;
    point: {
      horizontal: string;
      line: string;
      marker: {
        base: {
          horizontal: string;
          vertical: string;
        };
        icon: {
          base: string;
          wrapper: string;
        };
      };
      vertical: string;
    };
  };
}
```
