content/docs/dark-theme-toggle.en-US.mdx, before:

---
title: DarkThemeToggle
path: darkThemeToggle
publishedAt: 2024-02-15
githubLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/DarkThemeToggle
doc_type: component
summary: The DarkThemeToggle component is a button that allows the user to switch between light and dark themes with a simple click.
pageLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/DarkThemeToggle
tags:
  - darkThemeToggle
  - React
  - Tailwind CSS
  - Pol-ui
---

import RootCode from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/root.mdx";
import root from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/root";

import Styles from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/styles.mdx";
import styles from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/styles";

The **DarkThemeToggle** component is a button that allows the user to switch between light and dark themes with a simple click.

## Importation

Import the component from **pol-ui** to use the conveyor element:

```jsx
import { DarkThemeToggle } from "pol-ui";
```

## Default darkThemeToggle

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-darkthemetoggle--default-dark-theme-toggle"
  height={235}
  name="Default darkThemeToggle"
  code={root}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-darkthemetoggle--default-dark-theme-toggle&viewMode=story"
>
  <RootCode />
</Example>

## Props

| Prop name | Type                           | Default | Description                                         |
| --------- | ------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| iconDark  | string                         | TbSun   | The icon to display when the dark theme is active.  |
| iconLight | string                         | TbMoon  | The icon to display when the light theme is active. |
| theme     | [DarkThemeToggleTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to apply to the darkThemeToggle.          |
| ref       | object                         | null    | The ref to apply to the darkThemeToggle.            |
| color     | string                         | primary | The color to apply to the darkThemeToggle.          |

## Examples

### Custom styles

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-darkthemetoggle--custom-classes"
  height={235}
  name="Custom styles"
  code={styles}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-darkthemetoggle--custom-classes&viewMode=story"
>
  <Styles />
</Example>

## Theme

To learn more about how to customize the appearance of components, please see the [Theme docs](/docs/theming).

```ts
interface DarkThemeToggleRootTheme {
  base: string;
  icon: string;
}
```

Commit message:

Update dark theme toggle label and navbar documentation

content/docs/dark-theme-toggle.en-US.mdx, after:

---
title: DarkThemeToggle
path: darkThemeToggle
publishedAt: 2024-02-15
githubLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/DarkThemeToggle
doc_type: component
summary: The DarkThemeToggle component is a button that allows the user to switch between light and dark themes with a simple click.
pageLink: https://github.com/PolGubau/pol-ui/tree/main/src/components/DarkThemeToggle
tags:
  - darkThemeToggle
  - React
  - Tailwind CSS
  - Pol-ui
---

import RootCode from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/root.mdx";
import root from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/root";

import Styles from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/styles.mdx";
import styles from "examples/DarkThemeToggle/styles";

The **DarkThemeToggle** component is a button that allows the user to switch between light and dark themes with a simple click.

## Importation

Import the component from **pol-ui** to use the conveyor element:

```jsx
import { DarkThemeToggle } from "pol-ui";
```

## Default darkThemeToggle

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-darkthemetoggle--default-dark-theme-toggle"
  height={235}
  name="Default darkThemeToggle"
  code={root}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-darkthemetoggle--default-dark-theme-toggle&viewMode=story"
>
  <RootCode />
</Example>

## Props

| Prop name | Type                           | Default | Description                                         |
| --------- | ------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| iconDark  | string                         | TbSun   | The icon to display when the dark theme is active.  |
| iconLight | string                         | TbMoon  | The icon to display when the light theme is active. |
| theme     | [DarkThemeToggleTheme](#theme) | {}      | The theme to apply to the darkThemeToggle.          |
| ref       | object                         | null    | The ref to apply to the darkThemeToggle.            |
| color     | string                         | primary | The color to apply to the darkThemeToggle.          |
| label     | string                         | ""      | The label to apply to the button's tooltip.         |

## Examples

### Custom styles

<Example
  storybookUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/?path=/story/components-darkthemetoggle--custom-classes"
  height={235}
  name="Custom styles"
  code={styles}
  embedUrl="https://pol-ui-storybook.vercel.app/iframe.html?args=&id=components-darkthemetoggle--custom-classes&viewMode=story"
>
  <Styles />
</Example>

## Theme

To learn more about how to customize the appearance of components, please see the [Theme docs](/docs/theming).

```ts
interface DarkThemeToggleRootTheme {
  base: string;
  icon: string;
}
```
